docs/old-reference-guide/modules/queries/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Queries
:page-aliases: README.adoc

The third and final type of "Messages" that an Axon application is associated with are _*Query Messages (or simply Queries).*_ This section of the reference guide intends to cover in detail the capabilities that the Axon Framework provides to help facilitate Query Message Development.

A summary of the various sub-sections is given below.

[cols="<,<"]
|===
|Sub-Section |Purpose 

|xref:query-processing.adoc[Query Processing] |Short introduction to the Query Processing capabilities provided by the Axon Framework
|xref:query-dispatchers.adoc[Query Dispatchers] / xref:query-handlers.adoc[Query Handlers] |Functional Development concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|xref:implementations.adoc[Implementations] |Non-Functional Development concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|xref:configuration.adoc[Configuration] |Configuration concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|===

This guide is complemented by a video tutorial which gives a practical demonstration of the concepts explained in this section. The tutorial is available at -&gt; link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jS1vfc5EohM&feature=youtu.be[Axon Coding Tutorial - Query Messages]

Commit message:

Asciidoc pass of Queries
During this pass, the following has been changed:
- Code blocks with the wrong type have been fixed
- Tabs have been introduced where necessary
- Obvious grammar errors by Grazie (IDEA plugin) have been fixed
- Improved the navigation layout. Under every type of message, I have made a section "Handling", "Dispatching", "Infrastructure"
- Used number references of code listing in asciidoc (<1>, for example), giving a nice highlight
- Removed the processing page (but included a redirect)
- Made a short overview of query types on the index

docs/old-reference-guide/modules/queries/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Queries
:page-aliases: README.adoc,query-processing.adoc

The third type of Message that an Axon application is associated with is the Query Message, or simply Queries.
These are messages that request information in a certain format. Any application can declare it's able to handle a query message, and provide a response to it.

== Types of queries

There are multiple types of queries that cane be distinguished.

. xref:axon-framework-reference:queries:query-dispatchers.adoc#point-to-point-queries[Point-to-point queries]:
They are routed to a single handler, which is expected to return a single result. This is the most common type of query.
. xref:axon-framework-reference:queries:query-dispatchers.adoc#scatter-gather-queries[Scatter-gather queries]:
These queries are dispatched to all handlers that are capable of handling the query.
The results of all handlers are then aggregated and returned to the client.
. xref:axon-framework-reference:queries:query-dispatchers.adoc#subscription-queries[Subscription queries]: These request an initial result and then continue to receive updates as long as the subscription is active.
. xref:axon-framework-reference:queries:query-dispatchers.adoc#streaming-queries[Streaming queries]: These queries are used to request a stream of results, which are returned as they become available.


You can find more about each type of query in the xref:axon-framework-reference:queries:query-dispatchers.adoc[Query Dispatchers] section.


== Subsections
A summary of the various sections is given below.

[cols="<,<"]
|===
|Subsection |Purpose

|xref:query-dispatchers.adoc[Query Dispatchers] / xref:query-handlers.adoc[Query Handlers] |Functional Development concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|xref:implementations.adoc[Implementations] |Non-Functional Development concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|xref:configuration.adoc[Configuration] |Configuration concerns for Query Messages using the Axon Framework
|===

This guide is complemented by a video tutorial which gives a practical demonstration of the concepts explained in this section. The tutorial is available at -&gt; link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jS1vfc5EohM&feature=youtu.be[Axon Coding Tutorial - Query Messages]
